docs/source/getting_started/deployment.rst, before:

.. _deplyoment:

Server Deployment
==================

Requirements
------------

#. **Host system**

   | You will need some kind of :term:`server` to run the platform on.
   | Minimum specs:

   - OS: Ubuntu 20.04 or Ubuntu Server 20.04
   - CPU: 4 cores 
   - Memory: 8GB (for processing > 30GB recommended) 
   - Storage: 100GB (deploy only) / 150GB (local build)  -> (recommended >200GB) 

#. **Access to a docker registry or a tarball with built docker containers**
   Before proceeding with further installation steps, make sure you have access to a docker registry or a tarball with built Kaapana docker containers, otherwise please visit :ref:`getting_started`.

   .. hint::

      | **Get access to our docker registry or a tarball with the built docker containers**
      | In case you just want to try out the platform, you are very welcome to reach out to us (:ref:`contact`). In this case, we will provide you either with credentials to our docker registry or with a tarball that contains the docker containers from which you can directly install the platform and skip the building part!

   To provide the services in Kaapana, the corresponding containers are needed.
   These can be looked at as normal binaries of Kaapana and therefore only need to be built if you do not have access to already built containers via a container registry or a tarball.
   This flow-chart should help you to decide if you need to build Kaapana and which mode to choose:

   .. mermaid::

      flowchart TB
         a1(Do you want to use a remote container registry or a tarball for your Kaapana installation?)
         a1-->|Yes| a2(Do you already have access to a registry or a tarball containing all needed containers?)
         a1-->|No| b1
         a2-->|Yes| c1
         a2-->|No| b1
         b1(Build Kaapana) --> c1
         c1(Install Kaapana)


#. **Known Server Configuration**
   The **domain, hostname or IP-address** has to be known and correctly configured for the system. 
   If a **proxy** is needed, it should already be configured at ``/etc/environment`` (reboot needed after configuration!). 


Deploy a Kaapana Platform
-------------------------
   
Step 1: Server Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
This part describes the preparation of the host system for Kaapana.
Besides a few required software packages, mainly Microk8s is installed, to setup Kubernetes. 

.. hint::

  | **GPU support -> Currently only Nvidia GPUs are supported!**
  | GPU support requires installation of the `Nvidia drivers <https://www.nvidia.de/Download/index.aspx?lang=en>`_ .
  | For Ubuntu Server 20.04 :code:`sudo apt install nvidia-driver-450-server`
  | should also work **BUT** check the hibernation settings afterwards (`see <https://www.unixtutorial.org/disable-sleep-on-ubuntu-server/>`_) 
  | -> :code:`sudo systemctl mask sleep.target suspend.target hibernate.target hybrid-sleep.target`
  | --> reboot required!
  | Please make sure the :code:`nvidia-smi` command is working as expected!

Before the example platform "Kaapana-platform" can be deployed, all dependencies must be installed on the server. 
To do this, you can use the :term:`server-installation-script`, located at :code:`kaapana/server-installation/server_installation.sh`, by following the steps listed below.

1. Copy the script to your target-system (server)
2. Make it executable:

   | :code:`chmod +x server_installation.sh`

3. It's important to add your custom :term:`DNS` to the server installation script before you proceed, e.g. by running the following command to add the custom DNS:
   
   | :code:`sed -i 's/8.8.8.8,8.8.4.4/<add_your_custom_dns_here>/g' server_installation.sh`
   | :code:`cat server_installation.sh | grep DNS=`

4. Execute the script:

   | :code:`sudo ./server_installation.sh`

5. Reboot the system 

   | :code:`sudo reboot`

6. (optional) Enable GPU support for Microk8s 

   | :code:`sudo ./server_installation.sh -gpu`

Step 2: Platform Deployment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. hint::

  | **Filesystem directories**
  | In the default configuration there are two locations on the filesystem, which will be used for stateful data on the host machine:
  | 1. ``fast_data_dir=/home/kaapana``: Location of data that do not take a lot of space and should be loaded fast. Preferably, a SSD is mounted here.
  | 2. ``slow_data_dir=/home/kaapana``:  Location of huge files, like images or our object store is located here.  Preferably, a HDD is mounted here.
  | They can be adjusted in the :term:`platform-installation-script` and can also be identical (everything is stored at one place).

The platform is deployed using the :term:`platform-installation-script`, which you can find at :code:`kaapana/platforms/kaapana-platform/platform-installation/install_platform.sh`.

Copy the script to your target-system (server) and **adjust it as described below**:

1. Open the :code:`install_platform.sh` script on the server
   
   :code:`nano install_platform.sh`

2. Have a look at the variables on top of the script.
   
**You need to do at least the following customizations:**

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Local build

      .. code-block:: python

         ...
         CONTAINER_REGISTRY_URL=""
         ...

   .. tab:: Private registry

      .. code-block:: python

         ...
         CONTAINER_REGISTRY_URL="<registry-url>"
         ...

   .. tab:: Tarball

      .. code-block:: python

         ...
         CONTAINER_REGISTRY_URL="<registry-url-you-got-from-developer>"
         ...

3. Make it executable with :code:`chmod +x install_platform.sh`
4. Execute the script:

.. note:: 

   If you are use a tarball make sure that you also make the following changes to the :code:`install_platform.sh` file:

   .. code-block:: python

      ...
      OFFLINE_MODE="true"
      DEV_MODE="false"
      CONTAINER_REGISTRY_URL="<registry-url-you-got-from-developer>"
      ...

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Local build

      :code:`./install_platform.sh --chart-path kaapana/build/kaapana-platform-<version>.tgz`

   .. tab:: Private registry

      :code:`./install_platform.sh`

   .. tab:: Tarball

      :code:`./install_platform.sh --tar-path <path-to-tarball-file>`

You may be asked the following questions:

1. *Please enter the credentials for the Container-Registry:*

   Use the same credentials you used before with *docker login*

2. *Enable GPU support?*

   Answer *yes* if you have a Nvidia GPU, installed drivers and enabled GPU for Microk8s.

3. *Please enter the domain (FQDN) of the server.*

   You should enter the **domain, hostname or IP-address** where the server is accessible from client workstations.
   **Keep in mind, that valid SSL-certificates are only working with FQDN domains.**

4. *Which <platform-name> version do you want to install?:*

   Specify the version you want to install.

The script will stop and **wait** until the platform is deployed.
Since all Docker containers must be downloaded, this may take some time (~15 min).

After a successful installation you'll get the following message:

.. code-block:: python

   Installation finished.
   Please wait till all components have been downloaded and started.
   You can check the progress with:
   watch microk8s.kubectl get pods --all-namespaces
   When all pod are in the "running" or "completed" state,
   you can visit: <domain>
   You should be welcomed by the login page.
   Initial credentials:
   username: kaapana
   password: kaapana


Undeploy a Kaapana Platform
---------------------------

Step 1: Platform Uninstallation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
To uninstall Kaapana platform, kaapana-platform-chart and all related charts need to be deleted. For that, run the installation script :code:`./install_platform.sh` and choose the **3) Uninstall** option.

If the **uninstallation fails**, make sure to manually check 

1. All helm charts are deleted. All helm charts in Kaapana are created with the same namespace so that they are distinguished from possible other charts

   :code:`helm ls -n kaapana`

2. All pods are deleted. Kaapana uses multiple namespaces for managing deployment and pods, i.e. **kaapana, flow-jobs flow, monitoring, store, meta, base**

   :code:`kubectl get pods -A`

.. hint::

   | The :code:`./install_platform.sh` script also has a purge flag.
   | :code:`--purge-kube-and-helm` will purge all kubernetes deployments and jobs as well as all helm charts. Use this if the uninstallation fails or runs forerver.


.. note:: 
   | If the Kaapana instance uses GPU, the script will not uninstall the **gpu-operator** chart. You can delete this chart by running 
      
   | :code:`helm uninstall gpu-operator`
   


Step 2: Server Uninstallation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
In order to remove helm and microk8s from your system, you can use the server installation script with --uninstall flag.

   | :code:`sudo ./server_installation.sh --uninstall`

And reboot your system
 
   :code:`sudo reboot`

Commit message:

rename platform install scripts and change all text references to platform installation

docs/source/getting_started/deployment.rst, after:

.. _deployment:

Server Deployment
==================

Requirements
------------

#. **Host system**

   | You will need some kind of :term:`server` to run the platform on.
   | Minimum specs:

   - OS: Ubuntu 20.04 or Ubuntu Server 20.04
   - CPU: 4 cores 
   - Memory: 8GB (for processing > 30GB recommended) 
   - Storage: 100GB (deploy only) / 150GB (local build)  -> (recommended >200GB) 

#. **Access to a docker registry or a tarball with built docker containers**
   Before proceeding with further installation steps, make sure you have access to a docker registry or a tarball with built Kaapana docker containers, otherwise please visit :ref:`getting_started`.

   .. hint::

      | **Get access to our docker registry or a tarball with the built docker containers**
      | In case you just want to try out the platform, you are very welcome to reach out to us (:ref:`contact`). In this case, we will provide you either with credentials to our docker registry or with a tarball that contains the docker containers from which you can directly deploy the platform and skip the building part!

   To provide the services in Kaapana, the corresponding containers are needed.
   These can be looked at as normal binaries of Kaapana and therefore only need to be built if you do not have access to already built containers via a container registry or a tarball.
   This flow-chart should help you to decide if you need to build Kaapana and which mode to choose:

   .. mermaid::

      flowchart TB
         a1(Do you want to use a remote container registry or a tarball for your Kaapana installation?)
         a1-->|Yes| a2(Do you already have access to a registry or a tarball containing all needed containers?)
         a1-->|No| b1
         a2-->|Yes| c1
         a2-->|No| b1
         b1(Build Kaapana) --> c1
         c1(Install Kaapana)


#. **Known Server Configuration**
   The **domain, hostname or IP-address** has to be known and correctly configured for the system. 
   If a **proxy** is needed, it should already be configured at ``/etc/environment`` (reboot needed after configuration!). 


Deploy a Kaapana Platform
-------------------------
   
Step 1: Server Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
This part describes the preparation of the host system for Kaapana.
Besides a few required software packages, mainly Microk8s is installed, to setup Kubernetes. 

.. hint::

  | **GPU support -> Currently only Nvidia GPUs are supported!**
  | GPU support requires installation of the `Nvidia drivers <https://www.nvidia.de/Download/index.aspx?lang=en>`_ .
  | For Ubuntu Server 20.04 :code:`sudo apt install nvidia-driver-450-server`
  | should also work **BUT** check the hibernation settings afterwards (`see <https://www.unixtutorial.org/disable-sleep-on-ubuntu-server/>`_) 
  | -> :code:`sudo systemctl mask sleep.target suspend.target hibernate.target hybrid-sleep.target`
  | --> reboot required!
  | Please make sure the :code:`nvidia-smi` command is working as expected!

Before the example platform "Kaapana-platform" can be deployed, all dependencies must be installed on the server. 
To do this, you can use the :term:`server-installation-script`, located at :code:`kaapana/server-installation/server_installation.sh`, by following the steps listed below.

1. Copy the script to your target-system (server)
2. Make it executable:

   | :code:`chmod +x server_installation.sh`

3. It's important to add your custom :term:`DNS` to the server installation script before you proceed, e.g. by running the following command to add the custom DNS:
   
   | :code:`sed -i 's/8.8.8.8,8.8.4.4/<add_your_custom_dns_here>/g' server_installation.sh`
   | :code:`cat server_installation.sh | grep DNS=`

4. Execute the script:

   | :code:`sudo ./server_installation.sh`

5. Reboot the system 

   | :code:`sudo reboot`

6. (optional) Enable GPU support for Microk8s 

   | :code:`sudo ./server_installation.sh -gpu`

Step 2: Platform Deployment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. hint::

  | **Filesystem directories**
  | In the default configuration there are two locations on the filesystem, which will be used for stateful data on the host machine:
  | 1. ``fast_data_dir=/home/kaapana``: Location of data that do not take a lot of space and should be loaded fast. Preferably, a SSD is mounted here.
  | 2. ``slow_data_dir=/home/kaapana``:  Location of huge files, like images or our object store is located here.  Preferably, a HDD is mounted here.
  | They can be adjusted in the :term:`platform-deployment-script` and can also be identical (everything is stored at one place).

The platform is deployed using the :term:`platform-deployment-script`, which you can find at :code:`kaapana/platforms/kaapana-platform/platform-deployment/deploy_platform.sh`.

Copy the script to your target-system (server) and **adjust it as described below**:

1. Open the :code:`deploy_platform.sh` script on the server
   
   :code:`nano deploy_platform.sh`

2. Have a look at the variables on top of the script.
   
**You need to do at least the following customizations:**

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Local build

      .. code-block:: python

         ...
         CONTAINER_REGISTRY_URL=""
         ...

   .. tab:: Private registry

      .. code-block:: python

         ...
         CONTAINER_REGISTRY_URL="<registry-url>"
         ...

   .. tab:: Tarball

      .. code-block:: python

         ...
         CONTAINER_REGISTRY_URL="<registry-url-you-got-from-developer>"
         ...

3. Make it executable with :code:`chmod +x deploy_platform.sh`
4. Execute the script:

.. note:: 

   If you are use a tarball make sure that you also make the following changes to the :code:`deploy_platform.sh` file:

   .. code-block:: python

      ...
      OFFLINE_MODE="true"
      DEV_MODE="false"
      CONTAINER_REGISTRY_URL="<registry-url-you-got-from-developer>"
      ...

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Local build

      :code:`./deploy_platform.sh --chart-path kaapana/build/kaapana-platform-<version>.tgz`

   .. tab:: Private registry

      :code:`./deploy_platform.sh`

   .. tab:: Tarball

      :code:`./deploy_platform.sh --tar-path <path-to-tarball-file>`

You may be asked the following questions:

1. *Please enter the credentials for the Container-Registry:*

   Use the same credentials you used before with *docker login*

2. *Enable GPU support?*

   Answer *yes* if you have a Nvidia GPU, installed drivers and enabled GPU for Microk8s.

3. *Please enter the domain (FQDN) of the server.*

   You should enter the **domain, hostname or IP-address** where the server is accessible from client workstations.
   **Keep in mind, that valid SSL-certificates are only working with FQDN domains.**

4. *Which <platform-name> version do you want to deploy?:*

   Specify the version you want to deploy.

The script will stop and **wait** until the platform is deployed.
Since all Docker containers must be downloaded, this may take some time (~15 min).

After a successful deployment you'll get the following message:

.. code-block:: python

   Deployment done.
   Please wait till all components have been downloaded and started.
   You can check the progress with:
   watch microk8s.kubectl get pods --all-namespaces
   When all pod are in the "running" or "completed" state,
   you can visit: <domain>
   You should be welcomed by the login page.
   Initial credentials:
   username: kaapana
   password: kaapana


Undeploy a Kaapana Platform
---------------------------

Step 1: Platform Undeployment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
To undeploy Kaapana platform, kaapana-platform-chart and all related charts need to be deleted. For that, run the deployment script :code:`./deploy_platform.sh` and choose the **3) Undeploy** option.

If the **undeployment fails**, make sure to manually check 

1. All helm charts are deleted. All helm charts in Kaapana are created with the same namespace so that they are distinguished from possible other charts

   :code:`helm ls -n kaapana`

2. All pods are deleted. Kaapana uses multiple namespaces for managing deployment and pods, i.e. **kaapana, flow-jobs flow, monitoring, store, meta, base**

   :code:`kubectl get pods -A`

.. hint::

   | The :code:`./deploy_platform.sh` script also has a purge flag.
   | :code:`--purge-kube-and-helm` will purge all kubernetes deployments and jobs as well as all helm charts. Use this if the undeployment fails or runs forerver.


.. note:: 
   | If the Kaapana instance uses GPU, the script will not uninstall the **gpu-operator** chart. You can delete this chart by running 
      
   | :code:`helm uninstall gpu-operator`
   


Step 2: Server Uninstallation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
In order to remove helm and microk8s from your system, you can use the server installation script with --uninstall flag.

   | :code:`sudo ./server_installation.sh --uninstall`

And reboot your system
 
   :code:`sudo reboot`
